# mk-delly module 002 - pipeline for Germline Structural Variant detection.

## Software dependencies
**[Delly2](https://github.com/dellytools/delly)**

IMPORTANT NOTE: Delly2 must be installed in multi-threading mode, and should me called by `delly-parallel` command.

## Module objective
This module takes a merged BCF file from 001 and uses it to Re-Genotype SV for every sample, individually.
Sample Re-Genotyping is required to detect SVs focusing on the merged SV site list from 001. According to Delly2 author, "the main reason to merge and re-genotype is to get accurate genotypes across the same loci in all samples"[1]

## Input data format
This module needs a sorted and indexed BAM file for every sample. Prior duplicate marking of input BAM files is recommended. Module has been sucessfuly tested with BAM files produced by SNAP alligner.

Naming of input files should follow the convention "sampleID.bam", and the corresponding "sampleID.bai".

Input BAM and indexes must be located inside mk-delly/data/

A reference genome fasta file is also needed. It must be the same reference used to generate the analyzed BAM files.

Reference genome files must be located inside mk-delly/reference/

This module also uses an indexed BCF file enlisting sites of interest for every SV type detected in module 001 (SV-TYPE.merged.bcf, where "SV-TYPE" can be DEL, DUP, INS, INV or TRA).

The BCF file with merged sites list, and the corresponding .csi index, are generated by module 001 at mk-/delly/analysis/001/results/

## Output data format
For every SV-type (DEL, DUP, INV, INS, TRA) a directory is created in mk-delly/analysis/002/results/ ; such directory contains a Re-Genotyped BCF file with a .csi index for every individual sample. For every sample, module 002 must generate 5 Re-Genotyped BCF files, lacated at the corresponding SV-type directory.

## Default parameters and references
Describe design considerations: teh motives and references from which default parameters were selected.
TO-DO

## References
Describir las citas bibliograficas a papers o URLs (describir Referencias: URL o identificador unívoco de los documentos que se consultaron para definir los criterios de ejecución y parámetros de diseño.
